Fuzzing the HTTP Protocol
Let’s take a look at our vulnerable
application to demonstrate
the fuzzing and exploit
development processes.
In 2017, a buffer overflow vulnerability
was discovered
in the login mechanism of
SyncBreeze version 10.0.28.
Specifically, the username field of the
HTTP POST login request
could be used to crash the application.
Since working credentials are not required
to trigger the vulnerability,
it is considered a pre-authentication
buffer overflow,
a terrific opportunity for us as
penetration testers.
We’ll begin by starting the SyncBreeze
service on our Windows 10 client machine.
This can be done by launching the
Services console,
right clicking on SyncBreeze
and selecting Start.
Now that the service is running,
we can focus on the vulnerability
discovery process.
If we had no foreknowledge about this vulnerability,
we would begin fuzzing every input field the application offered,
hoping for unexpected behavior or an application crash.
For the purposes of this module however,
we will skip this step and focus specifically
on the vulnerable username field.
In order to code a basic generation-based
fuzzer from scratch,
we will first sample the network traffic
that passes between the client
and the server during the vulnerable
interchange
for use as our input data or seed.
First, we will launch Wireshark on our
Kali Linux machine
and configure a capture filter.
Then we’ll launch Firefox and navigate
to the Sync Breeze web interface.
We’ll attempt to log in to SyncBreeze
with invalid credentials.
Now let’s return to Wireshark and
locate our login attempt.
Inspecting the TCP stream reveals our
HTTP login attempt.
The HTTP reply shows that the username
and password are invalid,
but this is irrelevant since the
vulnerability we are investigating
exists before the authentication
takes place.
We can replicate this HTTP communication
and begin building our fuzzer
with a Python Proof of Concept.
Since we know we are dealing with a
buffer overflow vulnerability,
we will build our generation-based
fuzzer
so that it will send multiple HTTP POST
requests
with increasingly longer usernames.
In the while loop, notice that we increase the length of the username field
by 100 characters on every login attempt.
Then, we insert a 10-second delay
between HTTP POST commands
to slow down the process and more
clearly show the HTTP POST
that is responsible for triggering
the vulnerability.
Before running our fuzzer, we must attach
a debugger to SyncBreeze
while it is running to catch any
potential access violation.
However, we must first determine which
of the several SyncBreeze processes
is listening on TCP port 80.
Although the Immunity Debugger has a
Listening column
designed to show this information,
in our case it doesn’t show up.
Instead, we will use Microsoft TCPView for
this purpose.
To make the process easier to find,
we’ll de-select “Resolve Addresses”
from the “Options” menu.
In this case, the process name is
syncbrs.exe.
However, when returning to Immunity
Debugger, this process does not appear.
This is because SyncBreeze runs with
SYSTEM privileges
and Immunity Debugger was executed
as a regular user.
To get around this, we need to relaunch
Immunity Debugger
with administrative privileges
by right-clicking it and choosing
“Run as administrator”.
We have located the process so we’ll
select it and click Attach.
Attaching a debugger to an
application pauses it,
so we need to resume execution
by pressing F9.
Now that the debugger is attached and
SyncBreeze is running,
we can run our fuzzing script.
When our username buffer reaches
approximately 800 bytes in length,
the debugger presents us with
an access violation
while trying to execute code at
address 41 41 41 41.
Our simple fuzzer triggered a
vulnerability in the application!
This type of vulnerability is most
often due to a memory operation
like a copy or move that overwrites
data outside its intended memory area.
When the overwrite occurs on the stack,
this leads to a stack buffer overflow.
This may seem like a fairly innocuous
oversight,
but we will leverage it to trick the CPU
into executing any code we want.
Returning to the fuzzer, we can see that
it crashed the SyncBreeze application.
Let’s restart it.
Since it is running as a service,
we need to restart it through the
Services console.
Let’s re-attach Immunity to the process
before we proceed.
We’ll press F9 to resume the process
and return to Kali.